---
layout: post
title: Learn Kubernetes at Home with Multipass and MicroK8S
description: Ipsum dolor sit amet
image: 
---

I've been in the web development business for quite some time now and it seems like the days of "an" administrated web 
server or J2EE container are over. There are slight variations in container technologies and how service infrastructures 
are orchestrated, managed, logged, monitored, secured, and scaled, but Kubernetes seems to be the popular platform 
foundation for this new hosting context.

I am currently on a Mule API development effort and we're using Kubernetes for our development, test, and staging 
infrastructure. We're also pushing the envelope on API health checks because our current plan is to periodically call 
our APIs but expecting a single instance response is not really accurate reporting. API's that run on replicated 
container instances need to be checked individually. This MicroK8S installation is my late-night research project to 1) 
learn more about Kubernetes and 2) determine if we can garner unique pod or deployment information from within 
deployment container itself.

Let's begin with an overview of my machine. I have an Intel NUC mini computer with 32GB of RAM and a 1TB SSD. My OS is 
Windows 10 Professional. MicroK8S is a production-ready Kubernetes with a smaller disk and memory footprint but with 
all of the same features of Kubernetes (K8S). MicroK8S runs on Linux managed by a VM hypervisor. I'll explain first how 
I installed MicroK8S. I'll probably author a second post with an application deployment and configuration example.

We'll use Multipass because it's convenient. We can download and install Ubuntu 20.04 LTS with a single command in a 
Powershell window. First, download Multipass for Windows 64-Bit.

<link>

Follow the prompts and accept the recommended pre-selected options. Once Multipass is installed, we also need to download 
and install Oracle's VirtualBox. I chose to use VirtualBox instead of Hyper-V only because I found a solution for 
bridge networking into the VM. Multipass defaults to Hyper-V but we can set the hypervisor before we launch an instance.

<link2>

When Multipass and VirtualBox are installed, we'll now set the hypervisor to be VirtualBox. Open an Administrator 
Powershell terminal and set the local.driver for Multipass.

{% highlight powershell %}
PS> multipass set local.driver=virtualbox
{% endhighlight %}